It is the middle of the Clone Wars, a galactic war. You, a jedi deployed by the grand Republic, have gone in search of Poggle the Lesser, king of the Geonosians and key leader of the Separatists. Unfortunately, he has fled into a maze of cave-like catacombs underneath the great Geonosian temple. The catacombs are vast, unexplored and are very dangerous. You must search the catacombs and find Poggle but avoid the hazards that await you.
The cave system is made up 20 catacombs, each one connecting to 3 other catacombs (in a north, east, south or west direction). You have a map, a lantern with a limited amount of energy cells which runs out after wandering around for too long, and you have 5 grenades. You can throw a grenade into an adjacent cave. If you blast the catacomb with Poggle in it, he dies (and you are successful). If Poggle is not in that catacomb, you alert him. When you alert him, there is a 75% chance that he will move to an adjoining catacomb and a 25% chance that he stay in the same catacomb. If Poggle moves into your catacomb after being alerted, his minions will capture you (you lose). Also if you blunder into the catacomb where Poggle is, you lose to Poggle and his minions.
When entering a new catacomb, if you are one catacomb away from Poggle or a hazard, your jedi senses will sense what is close (but not the direction of where it lies). One such hazard is the Hive Queen Karina the Great and her horde of undead. If you stumble into her cave, you will die (unless you have an ultraviolet flashlight to blind her). If you find yourself in a cave where a nest of Geonosians are sleeping, they will swarm you and carry you to a random catacomb.
Some caves may have items in them for you to take. These include: a lantern battery adds 5 energy cells to your lantern, an extra grenade, silent boots (which allows you to walk past sleeping Geonosian swarms without waking them) or an ultraviolet flashlight which temporarily blinds the Hive Queen Karina the Great, allowing you to escape her.
There may also be roaming characters in the caves, both friendly and hostile. If you encounter a Scout Geonosian, you have a 50% of killing him. If you do not manage to kill him, Poggle will be alerted. If you encounter a Thief Geonosian, there is a 50% chance of him stealing a lantern energy cell from you, a 25% chance of stealing a grenade and a 25% chance of not stealing anything. If you encounter Obi-Wan Kenobi, he will join you. With his more experienced jedi senses, he will be able to sense the direction of where the hazards and Poggle are when you are adjacent to them.
If you run out of lantern energy cells, or if you use up all the grenades in the game (including the ones lying around), it is game over! So do not waste them!
